# Spells

* [Appendix D: Spell Library](overview.md) - The spell library contains 15 pre-built spells for use in Open Adventure games. Each describes one way to create a particular spell effect using the Open Adventure rules. The spell entries include information about...
* [Animate Vines](animate-vines.md) - The Spellcaster causes vines to spring from the ground and wrap around the target. On a successful Spellcasting Action Check, the target is Grabbed by the vines as per the Grab Action described in Appendix B: Action...
* [Arcane Bolt](arcane-bolt.md) - A bolt of blue energy streaks from the Spellcaster’s fingertips toward the target. On a successful strike, the spell reduces the target’s Challenge Points or Body Points by the Effect. Armor (Body) reduces the Effect.
* [Arcane Shield](arcane-shield.md) - A glowing medium shield of a design chosen by the caster appears on the Spellcaster’s arm. This shield allows the Spellcaster to add the Effect of the Spell to their Body Defense against the same types of attacks a...
* [Bull’s Strength](bulls-strength.md) - On a successful Spellcasting Check, a red nimbus which vaguely resembles a bull or minotaur surrounds the recipient, and the target’s Strength Attribute increases by the Effect. The maximum Effect is equal to the...
* [Ethereal Hand](ethereal-hand.md) - The Spellcaster creates an ethereal hand they may use to perform Minor Actions or Major Actions they could normally perform with one hand and that do not require an Action Check. The Spellcaster may use the hand to...
* [Fear](fear.md) - The Spellcaster rubs the mixed bone and blood between their palms while casting the spell. On a successful Spellcasting Check, all living creatures in the Area of Effect must make a Resilience Check with a base...
* [Fireball](fireball.md) - The Spellcaster blows on the coal which causes it to glow red, then throws the coal at the target space. On a successful Spellcasting Check, the coal explodes into a ball of fire with an Area of Effect of Across the...
* [Grease](grease.md) - The Spellcaster throws the jar at the space where they want to center the spell’s effect. The Area of Effect is covered with a coating of slippery grease. Targets may make a Reaction Check to escape the area, as per...
* [Heal Wounds](heal-wounds.md) - On a successful Spellcasting Check, the Spellcaster heals a single wound of a pre-selected type. The base Difficulty Score is 6 and the base casting time is 1 hour, the same as for healing a Wound by mundane means....
* [Light](light.md) - The Spellcaster holds a small object while casting the spell. On a successful Spellcasting Check the object glows with a brightness equal to a lit torch.
* [Recover Body Points](recover-body-points.md) - On a successful Spellcasting Action Check, the Target recovers a number of Body Points equal to the Effect of the spell, up to the target’s maximum points.
* [Sleep](sleep.md) - On a successful Spellcasting Check, all living creatures in the Area of Effect must make a Willpower Check with a base Difficulty Score equal to the spell’s Effect. If they fail, they lose Challenge Points or Mind...
* [Teleport](teleport.md) - On a successful Spellcasting Check, the Spellcaster disappears from their original location and reappears at the desired end point. The Spellcaster does not pass through the space between the two points. The end...
* [Turn Undead](turn-undead.md) - The Spellcaster brandishes their holy symbol and calls on their chosen god to drive back the undead. On a successful Spellcasting Check, the targeted undead creatures must move away from the Spellcaster and remain at...
* [Wall Crawler](wall-crawler.md) - On a successful Spellcasting Check, the Spellcaster climbs a wall or cliff, sticking to the surface like a spider. If climbing the surface is a Challenge with Challenge Points, reduce the Challenge Points by the...
